SCIM supplemental (#1437)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2023-07-28-scim-workshop.md

image: blog/scim-workshop/social.jpg
type: awareness
changelog:

> - 2023-08-21: Added a Supplemental section at the end

Reviewer: Super!!

});
```

## Scale your SCIM server to support multitenancy

Enhance the scalability of your SCIM implementation with the following recommendations:

> <strong>Improve security by replacing auto-increment</strong>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Improve security by replacing auto-increment**
```

> In the OIDC and SCIM video, it was recommended to have a better way to assign the id attribute. And in both workshops, we used basic autoincrement for the user's id to lessen the complexity of the projects. However, for production, we recommend using a unique id generator such as [uuid](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid). I know I mentioned using xid in my accompanying video, but when considering which to use, keep in mind and as secure best practice whether or not the library is frequently maintained. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the OIDC and SCIM videos, we recommended improving the ID assignment. In both workshops, we used basic autoincrement for the user's ID to lessen the complexity of the projects. However, we recommend using a unique ID generator such as [uuid](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid) for production. I mentioned using `xid` in my accompanying video, but when considering which to use, keep in mind and as secure best practice whether or not the library is frequently maintained. 
```

> <strong>Enhance efficiency in managing multitenancy</strong> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Enhance efficiency in managing multitenancy** 
```

As mentioned, to simplify the example code, I demoed supporting one org at first by hardcoding the org ID as 1. 

```ts
// To funnel users into their designated orgs
const ORG_ID = 1;
```

> When you're ready to support multiple SCIM clients, you can retrieve the api string from the request headers sent from the IdP. Then do an org look-up with the findFirst SQL function and select the org id where the api key matches that of the one you extracted from the request headers. Doing so will automatically generate a user for the correct organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're ready to support multiple SCIM clients, you can retrieve the API string from the request headers sent from the IdP. Then, look up the org with the `findFirst` Prisma method and select the org ID where the API key matches the one you extracted from the request headers. Doing so will automatically generate a user for the correct organization.
```

| 4. [Enterprise-Ready Workshop: Terraform](/blog/2023/07/28/terraform-workshop) |

Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and subscribe to our [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/oktadev) channel to get notified about exciting new content. Please comment below if you have any questions or want to share problems you have used SCIM to solve or are planning to solve. As all our sample projects and SDKs are open source, we invite you to initiate a pull request if you see something you want us to improve. Thank you! 

> ## Supplemental

Reviewer: Can we find a way to sneak in keywords here? such as "Enhance your SCIM implementation" or "Manage multi-tenancy with SCIM"?

> ### Replacement for auto-increment

Reviewer: Same here with SEO. H2 and H3 contribute to SEO. Let's try to think of keyword reinforcement or way to introduce terms people will search for. Also, think about what readers will see in toc. when they scan it, will they understand this entry?

In the OIDC and SCIM video, it was recommended to have a better way to assign the id attribute. And in both workshops, we used basic autoincrement for the user's id to lessen the complexity of the projects. However, for production, we recommend using a unique id generator such as [uuid](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid). I know I mentioned using xid in my accompanying video, but when considering which to use, keep in mind and as secure best practice whether or not the library is frequently maintained. 

### Automatically handle assigning users to designated orgs

As mentioned, to simplify the example code, I demoed supporting one org at first by hardcoding the org ID as 1. 

```ts
// To funnel users into their designated orgs
const ORG_ID = 1;
```

> When you're ready to support multiple SCIM clients, you can retrieve the api string from the request headers sent from the IdP. Then do an org look-up with the findFirst SQL function and select the org id where the api key matches that of the one you extracted from the request headers. Doing so will automatically generate a user with the correct organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're ready to support multiple SCIM clients, you can retrieve the api string from the request headers sent from the IdP. Then do an org look-up with the findFirst SQL function and select the org id where the api key matches that of the one you extracted from the request headers. Doing so will automatically generate a user for the correct organization.
```
